---
layout: "conference"
title: "Building resilient networks, online and off, in the 21st century"
year: "2011"
speakers:
- name: "Janis La Couvée"
---


Community depends on networks, and the strength of these networks determines
the strength of all human enterprise: from business ventures to the
traditional barn raising or canning bee, or a multi-platform global
fundraiser. Yet how can we pre-determine the success or failure of a network?
Are there clues for us to consider? Janis will share lessons learned from many
decades of community building and organizing: from early days as a student in
France, to neighbourhood associations, the Blizzard of ’96, and more recent
efforts involving both social networking and online communities. Learn how to
strengthen your pre-existing networks and build new ones on a solid
foundation.

**Janis La Couvée** is a [financial services
professional](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413204109/https://www.linkedin.com/in/janislacouvee)
with a long history of community involvement particularly in the areas of
capacity building, public relations and the arts. Long before the web, Janis
was connecting people and providing answers. It’s just easier now!

She is a member of the Social Media Club Victoria leadership team and the lead
organizer of Twestival Victoria. Her other community involvements are: the
Blue Bridge Repertory Theatre board, [Quadra Village
Day](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413204109/http://www.blanshardcc.com/qvd)
planning committee, Hillside-Quadra Neighbourhood Action Group, Greater
Victoria Chamber of Commerce, and volunteering for Intrepid Theatre, Victoria
Fringe Festival, Theatre SKAM and the Canadian College of Performing Arts.

In August 2010 Janis was the PR manager for [The Road to Port
Hardy](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413204109/http://www.theroadtoporthardy.com/)
Charity Bike Ride by Frans Jonker, a fundraiser for the BC Cancer Foundation.
Watch for her on the [Babes (and Blokes) Go
Bare](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413204109/http://www.babesgobareforcancer.ca/)
calendar for 2011, another BC Cancer Foundation fundraiser.

Recent speaking engagements include Social Media Camp Victoria, the BC Social
Media Summit and the inaugural Idea Wave conference, as well as moderating
panels at [WordCamp
Victoria](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413204109/http://www.wordcampvictoria.ca/)
and Social Media Club.

Janis is passionate about bridging online and offline communities to effect
positive social change.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201442/https://www.ideawave.ca/2011-conference/building-resilient-networks-online-and-off-in-the-21st-century)