---
layout: "conference"
title: "Collaborative Adaptive Management is Four Learning Loops"
year: "2011"
speakers:
- name: "Scott Akenhead"
---


Adaptive Management is a framework for sustainability programs and
environmental management that emphasizes learning by management experiments.
Collaboration is the only way that large, complicated, multi-agency, and very
long programs can succeed. These two terms have become de rigeur for
environmental management, hence collaborative adaptive management is touted as
the way forward. But many ideas are operating here, and presentation of this
concept is typically confusing. Repairing confusion about adaptive management
processes is of critical importance. This talk points out the insightful
simplification of identifying four learning loops that build knowledge and
allow better decisions. Given that adaptive management is valuable to address
“wicked problems” of real-world management, this is an idea that will be
widely applicable.

**Scott Akenhead** : Originally trained as a mathematical ecologist, Scott has
25 years of broad experience in analysis and decision support in ecology,
business, and government, including sustainable urban planning and natural
resource management. He has led many science projects watersheds, fisheries
and GIS/RS, and many regional planning projects for land-use and
infrastructure for cities and for utilities in water, wastewater, and energy.  
As a research biologist with DFO for 15 years, he gained extensive experience
in ecological models, fisheries science and management, geomatics, statistics,
and numerical analysis, and led the introduction of new technologies for
natural resources management. He was scientist-in-charge for many high-seas
research vessel cruises, and participated extensively in international fora.  
As a professional consultant for 15 years, Scott designed and delivered
Decision Support Systems for government and utility clients: interactive maps
integrated with simulation models for sustainability planning by government
and corporate clients, collaborative web portals and on-line planning tools.  
Scott is an experienced small-business executive, with experience in both
established and start-ups companies – all related to sustainability. He has
been VP, CEO, Director, or Advisor for a number of local high-technology
companies.  
Scott has led the development of analyses and databases for managing cities,
counties, watersheds, fisheries, forests, and utilities. Typically, this
involved working collaboratively with stakeholders to help them meet Triple
Bottom Line objectives and make progress toward sustainability.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201442/https://www.ideawave.ca/2011-conference/collaborative-adaptive-management-is-four-learning-loops)