---
layout: "conference"
title: "Healthy High schools!"
year: "2011"
speakers:
- name: "Tamiya Leung"
---


In the education system, students are only required to take physical education
9 & 10; they despise this requirement for the mundane activities and
unoriginal sports that gym teachers usually choose to teach. My talk is the
about the idea of combining a physical education and a health and nutrition
course for grades 11& 12\. After high school when students leave home, they
are required to keep themselves healthy by eating properly, exercising on a
regular basis, and balancing their course load. With this course, students
would learn the importance of a healthy lifestyle and the skills to lead a
more successful life post-secondary. The course would introduce different
types of physical activity that students may have not been exposed to
otherwise, for example curling or squash. This could instill a lifelong
interest for fitness and health and subsequently be an advantage to the
government because citizens would be taking care of themselves and thus
costing less to the healthcare system. This talk would show the importance of
wellbeing that is somewhat ignored by high school students.

**Tamiya Leung** : Last year, I had the goal to become Student Council
President for my school. I had to prepare a speech that would captivate my
audience. Stumbling over my first few words made me nervous, but then, I was
on a roll. I achieved my goal and now I am heavily involved with my schoolâ€™s
leadership program. I enjoy learning the history of the past as well as the
new ideas of the future. I am a creative and liberal person and I plan to
attend Camosun College next year for the Visual Arts program. My hobbies
include travelling, photography, reading, sewing, and scrapbooking (anything
your Grandmother would do). In school, I play on the field hockey and soccer
teams, and outside of school I enjoy more soccer and swimming (only in the
right condition). In the summer, I worked for an ESL camp and met kids from
all over the world. I loved hearing about the places they were from in their
broken English. They really gave me a global perspective and taught me that
even though we are thousands of miles apart, we are very much the same.



[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201442/https://www.ideawave.ca/2011-conference/healthy-high-schools)