---
layout: "conference"
title: "Sustainable Funding Small Scale Wind Farm"
year: "2011"
speakers:
- name: "Geoff de Ruiter"
---


I would like to build a small scale wind farm consisting of around 4 wind
turbines. I have data on Vancouver Island for a specific location and as of
current analysis the site good for wind potential. One turbine would be
allocated for my personal revenue, while the other 3 would be used for funding
various environmental conservation organizations, special projects, causes or
businesses oriented towards sustainability, and/or research in green
technologies and practices. Based on general estimates of a site with good
wind potential, each turbine could generate 350-450 thousand dollars per year
(2 MW turbine). For the 10-13 years that it would take to pay off the project,
~50 thousand dollars would be taken from each turbine to fund the green
initiatives (150 thousand) and provide an income for myself (50 thousand).
When the project is paid off, the full amount generated by each turbine would
then be used. This leads to a significant amount of capitol that would be g  
enerated. It could be set up as a trust/foundation or given away entirely each
year.

My name is **Geoff de Ruiter**. I am a recent graduate of UVic with a masters
degree in Kinesiology/Neuroscience. My undergraduate degree was obtained from
UNBC in Prince George in the field of Biology and Microbiology. While
attending UNBC I completed two undergraduate research theses: one examining
genetic variability in a species of carp from China, and the other proposing
various renewable energy systems to displace considered energy generation from
coal fired power plants in BC. In the winter of 2008 I won the BC Hydro
Innovation Challenge for proposing 21% energy saving techniques and
technologies at UNBC, specifically focusing on snow storage for summer
cooling.  
Over the Past 5 years I have been actively involved in the environmental
movement focusing on renewable energy, but advocating for and becoming
knowledgeable in many fields of sustainability.  
In my spare time I enjoy science, cycling, surfing, snorkeling in rivers,
lakes, and the ocean, hiking, camping, speed skating, adventuring, living in
BC, and generally awesome and interesting things.  
One interesting factoid is that I have held my breath for exactly 3 minutes
and 30 seconds.  
Finally, I love BC.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201442/https://www.ideawave.ca/2011-conference/sustainable-funding-small-scale-wind-farm)