---
layout: "conference"
title: "Victoria Restorative Justice Society/LifeRing Canada Secular Recovery"
year: "2011"
speakers:
- name: "Gillian Lindquist"
- name: "Michael Walsh"
---


Restorative justice is a community-based approach to addressing crime that
focuses on repairing harm and relationships, restoring balance and
reintegrating victims and offenders back into the community. This is achieved
by actualizing restorative principles such as: working towards the restitution
of victims, empowering them and responding to their needs as they see them;
supporting offenders, while encouraging them to understand, accept and carry
out their obligations; recognizing that obligations should not be intended as
harms, and must be achievable; providing opportunities for dialogue between
victim and offender as appropriate; finding meaningful ways to involve the
community; and encouraging collaboration and reintegration rather than
coercion and isolation.

What would happen if these principals and foundations were used in addressing
the harms that have resulted for addiction? When in active addiction, a person
can inflict devastating harm on their families and within their communities.
When in recovery, how can the “offender” repair these harms in a meaningful
way? Can Circles, a restorative process, be used for “making amends?” If so,
what would that look like? Can the worlds of recovery and restorative justice
come together to create a new avenue to repair harm in the aftermath of
addiction?

**Gillian Lindquist** is the Coordinator for the Victoria Restorative Justice
Society (VRJS). VRJS provides restorative justice processes within the city of
Victoria and receives 80 – 100 referrals a year from VicPD, Victoria Crown
Counsel, ICBC, victims and schools. VRJS is one of the few restorative justice
program in BC that is doing serious crime work. Gillian’s passion is exploring
how the principals of restorative justice can be used in other environments,
such as workplaces, schools and in the field of recovery.

**Michael Walsh** is the Executive Director of LifeRing Canada, a peer-support
addiction recovery group based on three principles: sobriety, secularity, and
self-help. Through Michael’s own recovery of 9+ years, it was important to
repair relationships along the way – a process of which he is still engaged.
Michael states, “There is a lot of shame and guilt around addiction, and
confronting those I have harmed has not been easy. It took me five years to
contact my sister.” Had something like a restorative circle been in place,
Michael would have acted sooner. Michael believes that repairing relationships
and rebuilding trust is an integral part of recovery. He hopes to some day
provide restorative processes to assist others.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201442/https://www.ideawave.ca/2011-conference/victoria-restorative-justice-societylifering-canada-secular-recovery)