---
layout: "conference"
title: "Fuzzy Logic for the Control of Advanced Mobility Support Devices"
year: "2010"
speakers:
- name: "Robert Prinz"
---


Fuzzy logic extends conventional logic and set theory to include the idea of
partial truth and partial set membership. Originally introduced as a means of
modelling natural language, the most successful application of fuzzy logic has
been the fuzzy logic controller. Used in the control of autofocus in digital
cameras, heat chambers, washing machines, elevators, etc., fuzzy logic has
become a simple and increasingly prevalent form of artificial intelligence in
our daily lives (even though most of us are not aware of it). In my master’s
thesis I used fuzzy logic as a means of artificially reproducing the human
movement – sit-to-stand. Sit-to-stand is simply the movement from a sitting to
standing position. The idea is to use a fuzzy logic controller to control the
activities of an advanced mobility support device, such as a powered orthosis
or exoskeleton, which provides active mobility assistance to the user. This
work was presented at the 33rd Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering
Conference recently held in Vancouver.

“ **Robert Prinz** received his B.Eng. in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Victoria in 2005 and is currently seeking his M.A.Sc. He is a
research associate (grad student) with CanAssist – the University of Victoria
assistive technology team – where he aspires to use technology to better the
lives of people with special needs. His primary areas of research include
human movement analysis, control theory, and artificial intelligence.”


[ Play in full screen HD
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413203954/https://www.youtube.com/v/E_d6ph_8KgE?fs=1&hl=en_US&rel=0&hd=1)


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210416135337/https://www.ideawave.ca/the-conference/fuzzy-logic-for-the-control-of-advanced-mobility-support-devices)