---
layout: "conference"
title: "Ideal Solar Storage Batteries invented in 1902 by Edison are Rediscovered"
year: "2010"
speakers:
- name: "Ian Soutar"
  url: "http://www.nickel-iron-battery.com/"
---


The topic will include the history of these batteries which were invented by
Edison in 1902. In 1972 the Exide Battery Company bought the technology from
the Edison Storage Battery Company and immediately took them off the market …
just before solar energy became practical. Ian will be discussing this
history, showing example batteries and showing pictures of the system
installed in his house.

[ Ian Soutar ](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413184645/http://www.nickel-
iron-battery.com/) is a mechatronics product designer and founded Microsec
Research and Development Inc. in 1986. In the early 1980s he developed solar
thermal products through Norsun Solar in Ottawa and later worked at the
National Research Council of Canada on solar thermal and solar voltaic
research. He has been awarded some half dozen patents for designs over the
last 20 years and specializes in finding the simplest approach to solving
problems with microcontrollers or single chip computers. Radio and
communication technology are a special area of interest. Ian is currently
involved with Palcan Fuel Cells developing a control system to simplify the
usage of hydrogen systems by making them almost as easy to use as batteries.
In 2007 Ian worked with Jim Harrington of Victoria to create Canada’s first
hydrogen assisted sailboat. Ian is also the founder of the Nickel Iron Battery
Association which is re-introducing the Edison Cell to the Solar Industry for
the storage of power. These remarkable batteries have a lifespan that can
reach 100 years and are the only environmentally friendly battery known.
Currently Microsec R&D Inc. is focusing on alternate energy control systems
design. Ian is a beekeeper and is working to discover ways to prevent the
“Colony Collapse Syndrome” that has killed many honeybees recently.


[ View video 1 in full screen HD
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413184645/https://www.youtube.com/v/dO0-mGrWcjo?fs=1&hl=en_US&rel=0&hd=1)

[ View video 2 in full screen HD
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413184645/https://www.youtube.com/v/RrGCzYLw7Bs?fs=1&hl=en_US&rel=0&hd=1)


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210416135337/https://www.ideawave.ca/the-conference/ideal-solar-storage-batteries-invented-in-1902-by-edison-are-rediscovered)