---
layout: "conference"
title: "Right Brain Solutions for New Work Challenges"
year: "2010"
speakers:
- name: "Dr. William A. Gray"
  url: "http://www.mentoring-solutions.com/"
---


To be competitive in the global economy, the Pew Center asserts that right
brain innovative capability must be used to do NEW WORK — because “left brain”
routine work will be outsourced more and more to countries where there is
cheaper labor to do these routine jobs. This is especially important for
Canada, which ranks 14th in Innovation amongst 17 peer nations, according to a
recent Conference Board report (the USA ranks 3rd). To meet this challenge,
different kinds of Knowledge Solutions can be used for different purposes. For
example: Reciprocal knowledge exchange between researchers with chemical and
electronics backgrounds enabled Eastman Kodak to create hybrid products for
the digital age. Knowledge transfer from C-level officers (CEO, CFO, etc.) to
lower-level positions ensured retention of critical organizational knowledge
needed for successful succession planning at Sony Electronics and Winthrop
Pharmaceuticals. Knowledge harvesting of the unique problem-solving ability
and practices of each independent researcher at AIL Systems generated
additional business. Knowledge sharing between departments (e.g., Sales and
Finance) and between management and labor overcame “silo thinking” at CSX
Transportation to produce innovative services for customers and profits for
shareholders. Knowledge translation converts knowledge and creative ideas into
new products; AT&T did this to get new and better consumer products to market
faster.

[ Dr. William A.
Gray](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413185135/http://www.mentoring-
solutions.com/)

My wife and I have been innovators in education and corporate settings for
over 30 years. At the University of British Columbia, we discovered how to
enable future teachers (as mentors) to identify and respond to individual
differences in learners by carrying out a Mentor-Assisted Enrichment Project
with 2-5 proteges in grades 4-12. Via R&D, we discovered how to properly
structure MAEPs for gifted/talented, ESL and at-risk youth to produce
appropriate outcomes (higher-level thinking, better language facility,
motivation to stay in school). The mentors reported that they learned more
about working with individuals than they did in any other way during their
B.Ed Program. When we started our company, we combined the educational
paradigm (emphasizes methods and process) with the corporate paradigm
(emphasizes results), to create over 200 distinctive programs for corporate
and government clients. Each program was collaboratively planned to meet
different business goals and the needs/goals of individual participants. We
created paper products to enhance success, and later converted these into a
web-based system that manages the entire process (registration and matching
participants to work together in different ways, online training, monitoring
activity, evaluating results).[ Our website
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413185135/http://www.mentoring-
solutions.com/) lists “Firsts” we pioneered and continue to do.


View in [ full screen HD
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413185135/https://www.youtube.com/embed/H7a0adr8x04?rel=0&hd=1)


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210416135337/https://www.ideawave.ca/the-conference/right-brain-solutions-for-new-work-challenges)