---
layout: "conference"
title: "The Star Raft – Building Circles of Support, Connection and Commitment"
year: "2010"
speakers:
- name: "David Wetherow"
  url: "http://www.communityworks.info/"
---


The Star Raft is a pattern used by sailors to anchor in community and a
working metaphor for creating and maintaining action-oriented personal support
networks for people with disabilities, youth at risk, families caring for
elders, injured workers, and others. It includes patterns for discovering and
mobilizing a rich array of people, places and resources that appears when we
‘mine’ our own personal networks.

The Star Raft ‘follows the threads’ of individual interests, gifts and
capacities in the direction of companionship, connection and contribution. It
includes tools for keeping circles strong in turbulent times, maintaining
safety, and expanding by lending experienced members to sponsor new circles.

The ultimate vision is that the pattern and the practice will become as
visible, accessible and free as systems such as AA and La Leche League – free
from competing for government or philanthropic funds, free from complex
bureaucracies, and free from the game of ‘competitive misery’ in which we’re
forced to define ourselves and those we love in catastrophic terms in order to
get essential supports.

[ David Wetherow
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413202805/http://www.communityworks.info/)
brings over 30 years of experience in disability services, person-centered
planning and personal network development. He and his wife developed the first
Microboards (there are now over 500 operating in BC), and has supported the
development of Microboard Associations in Tennessee, Illinois and Wisconsin.
He has authored training materials and software for the creation of personal
support networks, and plans to spend the next 30 years giving it away.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210416135337/https://www.ideawave.ca/the-conference/the-star-raft-building-circles-of-support-connection-and-commitment)