---
layout: "conference"
title: "Treatment for Lymphedema"
year: "2010"
speakers:
- name: "Margaret Pulton"
---


I was watching my sister trying to deal with acute lymphedema following a
double mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiation. She is one of 800,000 people in
North America with 64,000 new cases being diagnosed every year. Mostly cancer
victims.

Cause: Removal of lymph nodes during surgery and damage from radiation to the
lymphatic drainage system.

Current Treatment: Self massage of the affected limb at least twice a day,
pressure bandaging of the limb and wearing tight, elastic sleeves all the
time. Sometimes, pumps are used to force the lymph out of the limb to keep
drainage from stagnating and causing infections which are extremely serious.
There is no one method to date allowing the lymph to flow back to thoracic
node where it needs to go.

Would it be possible, with enormous amounts of technology to which we have
access to, offer a simpler and easier way to deal with this life altering
condition? I think stem cells are not going to be available any time soon. A
possible solution might be a garment made from extremely light and flexible
fabric with sensors inside to measure pressure and temperature change of the
skin. The garment, or shirt, would then start to compress and gently push the
fluid from the finger tips up to the nodes in the neck, back and chest. The
result would be continuous massage, hopefully creating new pathways for the
lymph drainage and while certainly not a cure, perhaps a better way to get the
job done.

Lymphedema can also affect more than a person’s arms, leg edema is very
difficult to manage. Perhaps, a pair of pressure pants could help. It is my
hope that someone out there can envision putting the technology to work. There
is a huge need and what is offered so far is very basic and not terribly
effective. Thank you very much for the opportunity to express my idea about
this extremely difficult condition.

**Margaret Pulton**  
I was born in Rossland B.C. and I grew up in Edmonton Alberta and graduated
from the University of Alberta school of nursing. Our graduating class will be
celebrating our 50th anniversary this year. My husband and I met in highschool
and married in 1961. We had three daughters and moved to Victoria in 1972. My
husband was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in his twenties. The disease was
slow but progressive so we were constantly adapting our lives to cope with the
disease. In the early 90’s, we bought an IBM 386 computer along with an
amazing voice recognition program. Bill, my husband, was actually able to
dictate correspondence on the machine although it was very primitive, but I
realized then the incredible potential of technology to change and improve the
lives of people facing huge challenges. I am amazed and delighted with what
has been accomplished so far and am excited about what is yet to come.


[ View in HD
](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413201835/https://www.youtube.com/v/Z2mMaCy0jQo?fs=1&hl=en_US&rel=0&hd=1)


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210416135337/https://www.ideawave.ca/the-conference/treatment-for-lymphedema)