---
layout: "conference"
title: "Diamagnetics, an almost unknown force that may be the keys to a new type of deep space drive"
year: "2012"
speakers:
- name: "Jim Harrington"
---


This would be an introduction to diamagnetics as a natural occurring elements
that tend to move away from any magnetic field. Some of these elements include
water, gold silver copper bismuth, and wood. One man made materiel is
paralytic graphite and it has been used to demonstrate levitation over super
magnets. Another is fluorite which is florescent in the presence of long wave
UV. This may explain why some people can douse for water by being attuned to
the diamagnetic field. Through a comparison of uranium glass and fluorite a
new doped material possibly could be developed to produce strong diamagnetic
moments under the influence of intense photo energy resulting in linear drive
in micro-gravity.

Bio: Jim Harrington is an electronics and mechanical product designer and is
the founder and president of AGO Environmental Electronics, Ltd. His wife
describes him as an inventor of practical products and he has been developing
research and exploration equipment since 1970 in astrophysics, geophysics, and
oceanographic applications. Throughout the 1970’s, he was instrumental in the
development and application of transient electromagnetic exploration equipment
used in the mining industry. In 1980, he joined the National Research Council
of Canada’s Hertzberg Institute of Astrophysics, Space Physics Division. He
assisted in the development of the high flux telescope for the Ulysses
spacecraft, which has explored the sun and Jupiter. Moving west, he then took
over the electronics special projects lab of Dobroky Seatech. In 1986, he
started AGO Environmental Electronics Ltd, and under his direction, it has
continued to expand, manufacturing specialized support equipment for the
mining, oceanographic, and scientific communities around the world. In 2008 he
received the Ontario Premier’s award for Technology for the development of
Canada’s first fuel cell assisted sailboat.


[//]: # (Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20210413200729/https://www.ideawave.ca/2012-conference/diamagnetics-an-almost-unknown-force-that-may-be-the-keys-to-a-new-type-of-deep-space-drive)