---
layout: "conference"
title: "The Promise of Utility Grade Computing"
year: "2012"
backup: false
speakers:
- "gregg-ferrie"
from: https://web.archive.org/web/20210413200729/https://www.ideawave.ca/2012-conference/the-promise-of-utility-grade-computing
---

The use of diskless or slim computing can dramatically improve an
organizationâ€™s ability to provide their users with a secure, stable, cost
effective, sustainable and highly energy efficient computer-based information
system. This is a greater concern as software continues to drive hardware
replacement, and becomes more support intensive. Information technology
managers struggle to maintain and support systems which constantly require
maintenance on users networked personal computers. Such computers, often
running Microsoft Windows and Windows applications, require substantial
resources including virus updates, software upgrades, security patches,
regular maintenance, and support. Of greatest consequence, is the significance
of climate change where organizations and energy managers are seeking ways to
reduce energy consumption, GHG, and other pollutants. The essential goal of
diskless client technology is to decrease technology limitations to actual
business processes, and enable users to perform their required tasks while not
having anxiety about viruses, crashing, access, and support. Valuable
resources can then be better utilized in administration, system development,
support, and user training. Well implemented and managed diskless client
technology can reduce client energy consumption by as much as 75% over
traditional desktop computing models. The example from School District No. 63
(Saanich) will show how using diskless clients has significantly reduced ICT
costs and reduced overall district electricity consumption by approximately
10% (1GWh) per year. This is transformational technology which provides
additional benefits including: changing organizational culture, reducing the
total cost of ownership (TCO), while streamlining and improving user access to
the information and data they require.
